\section{Proposed Approach}
\label{sec:proposed-approach}

Out goal is to visualize distributed state in a comprehensive way to provide
developers with an intuition about faulty behaviour. In order to capture
distributed state through variable logging, and the aggregation of individual
node state, we will leverage \dinv, a tool for detecting likely data invariants
in distributed systems~\cite{dinv}.

Distributed state is inherently complex. In its raw form it consists of
partially ordered instances of variable values. This raw data is classically
hard to reason about. In order to convey distributed state to a developer it
must be summarized. We propose that the behaviour of a distributed system under
correct execution follows predicable patters. Further that these patters are
reflected the systems state. The first contribution that our project seeks to
make is a state transition function $diff$ which measures the difference between
instances of distributed state. We recognize that many functions for measuring
state transitions could exist, our goal is to identify a $diff$ function which
is sensitive to state transitions, and is normalized during repetitious
behaviour.

Our initial approach will be to measure state transitions as the XOR difference
between variables in separate instances of distributed state. We formalize the
state $\sigma$ of a system to be a vector of variables $V =
{v_1,v_2,\dots,v_n}$. The XOR difference between two states $\sigma_i$ and
$\sigma_j$ is $XOR(V_i,V_j)$. The resulting vector contains an indices for the
XOR difference between each variable. The vector itself is $n$ dimensional and
represents the XOR velocity of the systems state. To measure the effectiveness
of our $diff$ function, we will initially plot its output as a simple line graph
and check if predictable repetitions patters emerge between executions.
Furthermore, we plan to plot the first and second order derivatives of $diff$,
$diff'$ and $diff''$ respectively to determine if they also exhibit predictable
patters. Initially we will try to detect patterns in Ricart-Agrawala
TODO~\cite{}. If predictable patters emerge we introduce a bug which causes
the algorithm to violate mutual exclusion. If predictable patterns emerge we
will expand our research into larger more general system. If the difference is
not noticeable but patterns emerge we will attempt to revise our visualization
to better reflect the property. If no alternative visualizations demonstrate
the irregularity, we will refine our $diff$ function to be more specific to
Ricart-Agrawala's state variables.
